February 20, 2025
(Photo credit: Adobe Stock)
Human beings are inherently social. We thrive on connection, communication and shared experiences, which help shape our identities and foster a sense of belonging. Yet, in an increasingly digital and fast-paced world, feelings of loneliness and social isolation have become alarmingly common.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that these feelings are widespread. About 25% of older people experience social isolation and 5%-15% of adolescents feel lonely.
These figures are important since published studies have demonstrated that social isolation and loneliness are linked to increased risk of disease and death. Indeed, our own study, published in 2022, found that social isolation in older people carried a 26% increased risk of developing dementia. We also found that loneliness was associated with depression.
We wanted to follow up our previous study by understanding the underlying biological processes behind this link between social isolation and loneliness and health. Why is loneliness so bad for our bodies and minds?
We focused on proteomics, the study of proteins. This is because we know that proteins play a role in gene expression, the process by which the information encoded in a gene is turned into biological activity. Proteins are also a major source of drug targets for developing medications.
In this collaborative study between the University of Cambridge and Fudan University, published in Nature Human Behaviour, we used data from 42,062 participants from the UK Biobank and studied 2,920 plasma proteins.
We investigated the association between proteins and self-reported loneliness and social isolation. We discovered that the proteins found to be significantly associated with loneliness and social isolation are also known to be implicated in inflammation as well as antiviral and immune responses.
In particular, our study suggested that loneliness may lead to an increase in the levels of five specific proteins expressed in the brain (known as GFRA1, ADM, FABP4, TNFRSF10A and ASGR1). In other words, all the proteins we identified as related to loneliness were “positively associated”, meaning that people who feel lonely tend to have higher protein levels compared to those who do not feel lonely.
We also studied data that tracked the health of our participants for about 14 years. This found that more than half of the proteins were linked to cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, stroke and death.
Based on our findings, having good social relationships and not feeling lonely may promote health by reducing the levels of certain harmful proteins. However, proteins may only partly explain the link between loneliness and health. Other potential pathways, such as social stress, may also play a role.
To our knowledge, this may be the first demonstration of how loneliness affects morbidity and mortality through its association with these five key proteins.
Social isolation and loneliness affect all ages and genders and leads to major mental and physical health problems. This study helps to understand how this happens on a biological level.
It demonstrates how important it is to connect with others through social activities, for example volunteering or team sport. This can reduce the effects of social isolation and loneliness on the underlying biological processes important for health outcomes.
While technology offers new ways to stay in touch, it can sometimes lead to superficial connections that leave us feeling more disconnected than ever. This paradox — being surrounded by digital interactions yet feeling profoundly alone — underscores the importance of deep, meaningful social connections.
Face-to-face social interactions where you also experience non-verbal communication often fosters better connections. Indeed one study showed that partners communicating face-to-face had more positive impressions than people interacting via a computer.
Social interactions are ultimately essential for our wellbeing, boosting both physical and mental health. Social connections reduce stress, lower blood pressure and support immune function. They also enhance cognitive health and improve brain health. In addition, they can foster empathy and understanding, strengthening our minds and providing emotional resilience.
Clearly, to foster a flourishing society we need to build meaningful connections with one another.

This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article.
New findings suggest that regular physical activity may directly improve brain function and memory by enhancing the way insulin communicates with brain cells.
Adolescents who experienced childhood trauma exhibited blunted cardiovascular responses to social stress, with smaller changes in heart rate and blood pressure. This diminished reactivity was linked to higher social anxiety
Feeling overwhelmed and distracted? New research reveals a potential solution: block mobile internet on your phone. The findings suggest it can boost your mood, sharpen focus, and improve mental well-being.
An unusual case report details a 25-year-old woman developing hypersexuality and compulsive masturbation after her escitalopram dose was increased for depression.
A new study suggests that individuals with severe generalized anxiety disorder may have lower antioxidant intake. After six weeks of supplementation, their anxiety symptoms improved, highlighting a potential link between diet and mental health.
Struggling to focus and hooked on social media? Blaming others for problems might be the surprising connection, according to new research on young adults.
High-intensity exercise briefly boosted BDNF in PTSD patients, unlike low-intensity exercise. However, neither exercise type caused sustained BDNF increases over 12 days.
Could an inert gas unlock Alzheimer's treatment? Xenon, used for anesthesia, is showing surprising promise in mice by targeting the brain's immune system and clearing amyloid plaques.

Login to your account below


Remember Me

Please enter your username or email address to reset your password.



- Select Visibility -PublicPrivate

