Neuroscience
Living at high altitudes can hinder emotion recognition, new research suggests.
Inflammation in the hippocampus alters motivated behavior in mice, but in opposite ways for males and females regarding food seeking and memory.
Does beauty in music resonate differently in our brains? New research using brain imaging uncovers intriguing patterns of neural connectivity that distinguish our responses to aesthetically pleasing and less appealing sounds.
A study found that individuals with alcohol use disorder show reduced gray matter in cortical and limbic areas. These brain changes correlate with increased anxiety, depression, and memory deficits.
Scientists have uncovered that strong brain circuits—particularly those behind language and arithmetic—may empower seniors to manage finances and fend off scams.
New brain imaging reveals unusual slowness in the visual cortex of individuals experiencing major depression. This altered activity, linked to symptom severity, highlights a connection between visual processing and the broader depressive state.
Did COVID-19 age your brain? New research reveals young adults who recovered from COVID-19 show brain activity patterns resembling those of people decades older.
Scientists have used high resolution imaging to discover that brain networks we use to think about others are connected to specific parts of the amygdala, an ancient region deep inside the brain.
Researchers used genetic data from over a million people and brain scans from over 30,000 to link genetic predisposition to dyslexia with differences in brain structure, particularly in areas involved in motor skills, vision, and language.
Recent research found that healthy aging is associated with widespread brain network changes, some linked to preserved thinking skills. In contrast, semantic dementia is associated with more rigid brain connections, particularly in the temporal and parietal regions, along with cognitive...
A large-scale neuroimaging study found no evidence of atypical functional connectivity in the amygdala of individuals with autism, challenging previous hypotheses. Results suggest amygdala connectivity differences may not be a core feature of autism.
Researchers discovered that amyloid precursor protein interacts with talin to maintain synaptic stability. Disruptions in this interaction may lead to Alzheimer’s disease by impairing mechanical signaling, triggering synaptic degeneration, and promoting amyloid plaque formation.
Men with psychiatric symptoms and more severe anhedonia showed increased functional connectivity between the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus and the nucleus accumbens, suggesting a neural basis for anhedonia linked to reward-processing brain regions.
New neurons in adult brains are linked to improved verbal learning and reduced cognitive decline, highlighting their unique role in humans compared to mice and their potential as a target for future cognitive-enhancing treatments.
Childhood maltreatment alone showed no effect on hippocampal size, but individuals with maltreatment and a romantic breakup had smaller hippocampal volumes, highlighting how later-life stress can exacerbate early trauma's impact on brain structure.

Login to your account below


Remember Me

Please enter your username or email address to reset your password.



- Select Visibility -PublicPrivate

